All right, we are up to chapter five,
this is the third kind of syntax that
we have available to us inside of grid.
This is the grid area syntax and
some people really like this I find
that designers really like
the area style of syntax better.
Again, I personally prefer the numbers but
this is just yet
another way of writing
exactly the same thing again.
So we're gonna go back to
our moons one more time and
basically what we're going
to do is as follows.
So we are still going to have for
the layout of this web page,
we are still going to have two columns and
three rows.
We're going to have exactly
that kind of thing but
now what we're going to do is the
intersection of the columns in space and
the rows in space, we can now designate
those as areas and we can give them names.
So, what I'm going to say is as follows,
so
what I wanna do still,
as as we have been doing,
I wanna put Europa over on the left
side and occupying the full column and
putting the three moons next to
each other, one after the other.
So here's the way that I would write this.
We are going to make a new property,
it's called grid template areas,
what a great name.
And the way we write grid template
areas is a little bit odd looking.
I'm just going to type this in and
then we can talk about what it means.
I'm going to call this feature a,
feature b,
feature c; so what this means is,
each one of those lines
with the quotations,
each one of those is a row, and
we're giving each of the cells a name.
So here the first cell is called feature,
the second cell is called a.
And then the second row,
it's still called feature, so
in other words the The feature
in the feature merged together.
Then we have b and
in the third row we have feature in c.
So the three features merge
together to form one column and
a, b, and c are the other areas, okay.
So that's how you would read that.
Yes?
>> So, our grid template areas,
by default, those are always rows?
>> The series stacked
on top of each other,
each one of those would be a row, correct.
So, if we had more columns here, we might
have additional names continuing on here,
like, I don't know,
we might have header, header, right?
So now I have four columns.
So here I would have to
call out four columns.
Now b is gonna stretch across those four
columns does that kind of make sense?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, and
c has got something else going on here,
that's got footer and copyright.
[LAUGH] So it's got three totally
different things down there on the bottom
and we've just made a really crazy grid.
>> It's almost like literally
taking the elements of a page and
writing them out the same.
>> Exactly, exactly,
we're just giving them names, okay.
This, of course, is not what we want here.
Okay, so obviously I've assigned some
names now, so I have a name of an area,
it's called feature.
I have a name in an area called a,
a name of an area called b,
and a name of an area called c, right.
So, I have those names now,
I need to assign the names, right?
So we're gonna match each of these
figures up with one of those areas.
Most notably, the one we need
to match up is the Europa image,
which is our figure nth-child 3 and
to do that, I will say grid area feature.
Boom and it just works, how cool is that?
Okay, now, io, Callisto, and Gani made
here, they're just gonna fill in.
We don't have to actually
tell it to go to a, b and c,
grid is doing that best guessing there for
us but we could assign those, if we wanted
them in a different order we could assign
those grid areas as well, make sense?